I am considering a Time Series Plot of Sentiment Index and Heatmap of Sentiment over Time for data visualization as described below.

Time Series Plot of Sentiment Index: This can be used because I am creating a historical sentiment index. This can show how sentiment changes over time. 
The x-axis can represent time (from 2000 to present), and the y-axis can represent the sentiment index. Each point on the graph represents the average sentiment value of each FOMC statement. 

Heatmap of Sentiment over Time: A heatmap can help me  show the sentiment of each FOMC meeting over the course of a year. 
The x-axis could represent months, the y-axis could represent years from 2000 to present. Finally, the color could represent sentiment with a gradient from negative to positive.

I am in the process of using FinBERT. FinBERT is a financial sentiment analysis model based on the BERT model developed by Google. 
The purpose of FinBERT is to analyze financial text data and provide sentiment labels such as positive, negative, or neutral. Below iss the general process of how I will use FinBERT for sentiment analysis on my data. 

I have the necessary packages installed such as PyTorch. 
I will load the FinBERT model using the transformers library. You need the name of the model if it is a public model, or the path to the model if it is a local model.


I will use sentiment analysis on the preprocessed data. I will feed the preprocessed data to the model and get the output. 
The final output will be a sentiment label such as positive, negative, or neutral. This label represents the sentiment of the input text according to the model. 
Also the sentiment is in the context of financial data, so a positive sentiment indicates positive financial implications. 

FinBERT models have certain expectations about the format of the inputted data.  

This includes sentence segmentation snd tokenization. Also BERT-based models have a specific way of tokenizing text data, splitting them up into word pieces. 
I need use the provided BERT tokenizer, which will break up words into subwords, prepend at the beginning and end of each sentence.
Also FinBERT models have a maximum token limit which is important to consider.  
Also the tokenized words need to be mapped to their corresponding IDs in the FinBERT model vocabulary.

Also attention masks are used to differentiate the actual tokens from the padding tokens if there are any.  

In my project, I am preprocessing each sentence in each FOMC statement before using FinBERT to generate sentiment scores. 
Once I have the scores, you can average them to create your sentiment index.

Also once I have FinBERT to obtain sentiment scores from the policy statements I will use these scores to generate visualizations. 
An interesting visualization can be to use an Time-Series plot. As each FOMC statement corresponds to a specific date, I can plot the sentiment scores over time.
On the X-axis, I will have all the dates of the policy statements, and on the Y-axis, the sentiment scores.
This visualization will give an understanding of how the changes through the years. 

I will also start to work on my project report. 
