I started to utilize FinBERT on your data. The purpose of FinBERT is to analyze financial text data and provide sentiment labels such as positive, negative, or neutral.

First thing is to install necessary packages. I made sure you have the necessary packages installed. 
This includes PyTorch, which is the deep learning library that FinBERT is built with, and transformers, which provides the BERT model.

The next thing is to load the FinBERT model using the transformers library. 
I need the name of the model if it is a public model, or the path to the model if it is a local model.

Then using the  tokenizer to convert my text data into the format that the model expects.
This involves tokenizing the text (splitting it into individual words/subwords), and converting these tokens into their corresponding numerical IDs. 
The tokenizer also takes care of adding any necessary special tokens.

Then perform sentiment analysis: Feed the preprocessed data to the model and get the output. The output is a logistic vector. 
I can  convert it into probabilities using the softmax function, and then get the class with the maximum probability.

Also the predicted_class variable will hold the ID of the predicted sentiment class. 
The class names corresponding to these IDs can be found in the model’s id2 label attribute.

The BERT model goes through 2 unsupervised learning steps. These are Mass Language Modelling (MLM) and Next Sentence Prediction (NSP). 
In MLM the model is given a random sentence with a few words masked or replaced by a token. 
BERT then tries to predict the embeddings for these words. In this way it learns the language and grammar. 
In NSP step BERT is given 2 sentences, Sentence A and Sentence B and told to predict whether sentence A precedes sentence B in order. This way BERT learns the context of the language.

BERT uses a method called WordPiece tokenization. This involves breaking words into smaller subwords. 
This is especially useful for dealing with out-of-vocabulary words and enables the model to handle almost any word it encounters, even if it's not in the model's vocabulary. 
I used the transformers library from Hugging Face to load the tokenizer that corresponds to the pre-trained model I am using.

FinBERT, from Araci (2019), is a refined version of BERT that is designed to understand text in the context of Financial sentiment. 
FinBERT is pre-trained using a large corpus of financial texts and fine-tuned with a dictionary of financial words and phrases from Malo et al. (2014).
One feature of FinBERT is that it was pre-trained using longer texts, so it splits sentences individually and then calculates sentiment on each one of them. 
This feature generally fits well with our data as our FOMC statements generally contain text for each statement date that has several sentences. 

FinBERT produces five sentiment values. Three values represent the probabilities that the text is either positive, negative, or neutral. 
FinBERT also calculates a compound score as the positive probability minus the negative probability. Lastly, FinBERT provides trinary sentiment prediction which is based on the highest of the three probabilities.

FinBERT produces five sentiment values. Three values represent the probabilities that the text is either positive, negative, or neutral. 
FinBERT also calculates a compound score as the positive probability minus the negative probability. Lastly, FinBERT provides trinary sentiment prediction which is based on the highest of the three probabilities.
